Update CQD-Power-BI-query-templates.md (#6034)
MicrosoftDocs/OfficeDocs-SkypeForBusiness: Teams/CQD-teams-aa-cq-historical-report.md

---
title: Using CQD Power BI report to view Auto Attendant & Call Queue Historical Report
ms.author: colongma
author: ColinLongman
manager: roykuntz
ms.reviewer: mikedav, siunies, gageames
ms.topic: article
ms.tgt.pltfrm: cloud
ms.service: msteams
ms.collection: 
  - M365-voice
search.appverid: MET150
audience: Admin
appliesto: 
  - Skype for Business
  - Microsoft Teams
localization_priority: Normal
f1.keywords: 
  - CSH
ms.custom: 
  - Reporting
  - ms.teamsadmincenter.directrouting.cqd
  - ms.lync.lac.ToolsCallQualityDashboard
  - seo-marvel-apr2020

> description: Learn about how to use Call Quality Dashboard Power BI report to view Auto Attendant & Call Queue Historical data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about how to use Call Quality Dashboard Power BI report to view Auto Attendant and Call Queue historical data.
```

---

> # What are the Requirements? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What are the requirements? 
```

> You need to have Power BI Desktop installed. You can install it from the [Microsoft Windows Store](https://aka.ms/pbidesktopstore)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to have Power BI Desktop installed. You can install it from the [Microsoft Windows Store](https://aka.ms/pbidesktopstore).
```

> You can use the free version of Power BI Desktop. Minimum compatible version is 2.85.681.0 (September 2020)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the free version of Power BI Desktop. The minimum compatible version is 2.85.681.0 (September 2020).
```

## Permissions to access the CQD pipeline

> The account you use to view the AA & CQ Analytics historical report needs to have permissions to access the CQD data pipeline. Please refer to [CQD access role](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/turning-on-and-using-call-quality-dashboard#assign-roles-for-accessing-cqd) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The account you use to view the AA & CQ Analytics historical report needs to have permissions to access the CQD data pipeline. Please refer to the [CQD access role](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/turning-on-and-using-call-quality-dashboard#assign-roles-for-accessing-cqd) for more information.
```

## Installation 
The following steps assume you have already installed Power BI Desktop on the computer and that your account has the necessary permissions to access the CQD data pipeline.

Please perform these steps:

> - Download the [CQD Teams Auto Attendant & Call Queue Historical Report Template](https://aka.ms/TAPAACQAnalytics) and save it to a directory on your computer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Download the [CQD Teams Auto Attendant & Call Queue Historical Report Template](https://aka.ms/TAPAACQAnalytics) and save it to a directory on your computer.
```

> - Double-click on the template and Power BI Desktop should launch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Double-click on the template and Power BI Desktop should launch.
```

- You will be prompted to select the CQD data pipeline region. Select the region where your tenant is located.

:::image type="content" source="media/cqd-teams-aa-cq-historical-report-01.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Call quality dashboard button in Teams admin center":::

 - You can see the region using the Skype for Business Online PS cmdlet (Get-CsTenant).ServiceInstance output. 

>  The region will be displayed after the / like in this example microsoftcommunicationsonline/noam-4a-s7 where the region is noam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The region will be displayed after the / like in this example: microsoftcommunicationsonline/noam-4a-s7 where the region is noam.
```

>  - The report will launch with sample data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The report will launch with sample data.
```

>  - To see your own data please click Refresh in the Home tab under Queries in Power BI Desktop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - To see your own data, please click **Refresh** in the Home tab under Queries in Power BI Desktop.
```

:::image type="content" source="media/cqd-teams-aa-cq-historical-report-02.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Call quality dashboard button in Teams admin center":::

> - You will then be prompted to sign in. Select Organization account and click Sign in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will then be prompted to sign in. Select **Organization account** and then select **Sign in**.
```

:::image type="content" source="media/cqd-teams-aa-cq-historical-report-03.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Call quality dashboard button in Teams admin center":::

> - Click Connect and watch the data refresh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select **Connect** and watch the data refresh.
```

## Data latency Any AA & CQ analytics
Data will be available in the CQD data pipeline within 30 minutes.

You will have to refresh the data to see the new analytics data. 

## Customization 

> You are able to customize certain visualization aspects of the reports, i.e. adding or removing fields to be shown in the various visualizations, changing chart type etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are able to customize certain visualization aspects of the reports, such as adding or removing fields to be shown in the various visualizations, changing chart type, etc.
```

You cannot add additional data fields other than the ones provided in the report.

### Change color schema 

> The following steps assume you have already completed Installation steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps assume you have already completed the Installation steps.
```

Please perform these steps:

> - Select on ribbon View tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select on **View tab** on the ribbon.
```

> - Select on **View tab** on the ribbon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select **View tab** on the ribbon.
```

:::image type="content" source="media/cqd-teams-aa-cq-historical-report-04.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Call quality dashboard button in Teams admin center":::

> - Select color schema from drop down list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select the color schema from the drop-down list.
```

:::image type="content" source="media/cqd-teams-aa-cq-historical-report-05.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Call quality dashboard button in Teams admin center":::

> ## CQD Fields Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CQD fields description
```

|Auto Attendant Call Result              |string                   |Call result:<br>§  unknown<br>§  transferred_to_user<br>§  transferred_to_operator<br>§  failover_to_operator<br>§  user_terminated<br>§  service_declined<br>§  service_terminated<br>§  failed_to_establish_media<br>§  terminated_no_operator<br>§  terminated_transfer_failed<br>§  terminated_automatic_selection<br>§  transferred_to_shared_voicemail<br>§  oaa_chain_too_long<br>§  oaa_session_too_long|
|Auto Attendant Call Flow                |string                   |Encapsulates the different states of Auto Attendant Call<br>§  abs_search<br>§  call_termination<br>§  call_transfer<br>§  main_menu<br>§  user_selection<br>§  speech_input_confirmation<br>§  first_level_menu<br>§  automatic_menu<br>§  announcement|
|Is Auto Attendant Involved              |Boolean                  |Indicated if AA involved into the call |

> |Auto Attendant Caller Action Count      |Int                      |Count of used action by caller         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Auto Attendant Caller Action Count      |int                      |Count of used action by caller         |
```

> |Auto Attendant Chain Duration Seconds   |Int                      |Duration of call in AA                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Auto Attendant Chain Duration Seconds   |int                      |Duration of call in AA                 |
```

|Call Queue Call Result                  |String                   |Call queue call final state<br>possible values:<br>§  error<br>§  declined<br>§  overflown<br>§  failed<br>§  timed_out<br>§  transferred_to_agent<br>§  agent_joined_conference|
|Call Queue Final State Action           |String                   |Call queue final action<br>possible values:<br>§  forward<br>§  disconnect<br>§  voicemail<br>§  disconnect_with_busy<br>§  shared_voicemail<br>§  failed_to_accept_call<br>§  other|
|Call Queue Identity                     |String                   |Name of resource account attached to CQ<br>Example: aa_test@microsoft.com|
|Call Queue Is Conference Mode           |Boolean                  |Set to 1 if conference mode enabled on CQ |
|Call Queue Target Type                  |String                   |Expected call redirection target type     |
|Transferred From Call Queue Identity    |Boolean                  |Name of resource account attached to CQ from which this call was transferred<br>Example: aa_test@microsoft.com|

> |Call Queue Agent Opt In Count           |Int                      |Count of agents available to this queue at the moment of call |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Call Queue Agent Opt In Count           |int                      |Count of agents available to this queue at the moment of call |
```

> |Call Queue Agent Count                  |Int                      |count of agents assigned to this queue at the moment of call |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Call Queue Agent Count                  |Int                      |Count of agents assigned to this queue at the moment of call |
```

|Is Call Queue Involved                  |Boolean                  |If call queue is involved into to this call equal 1 |

> ### PowerBI data model Dimensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PowerBI data model dimensions
```

|Call Queue Call Result                  |string                   |Call queue call final state<br>possible values:<br>	error<br>	declined<br>	overflown<br>	failed<br>	timed_out<br>	transferred_to_agent<br>agent_joined_conference           |
|Call Queue Final State Action           |string                   |Call queue final action<br>possible values:<br>	forward<br>	disconnect<br>	voicemail<br>	disconnect_with_busy<br>	shared_voicemail<br>	failed_to_accept_call<br>other             |
|Agent Name                              |string                   |User UPN               |

### Measures

|Name	                                   |Type	                   |Description                            |
|---------------------------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------------------:|
|AACallerActionCount                     |int	                     |# of action selected by user in AA during the call  |
|PSTNMinutes                             |int                      |Total minute usage                                  |
|TotalCallCount                          |int                      |# of calls                                          |

> |Average Call Duration( Seconds)         |int                      |Total duration of call of call queue in seconds     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Average Call Duration( Seconds)         |int                      |Total duration of call queue calls in seconds     |
```

Author: If this could be further updated to read:  Average Call Duration (seconds)

> ### PowerBI graph description Auto Attendant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Power BI graph description Auto Attendant
```

|Directory search method totals          |Distribution of call by search type                         |
|Caller action                           |Distribution of call by call receiver                       |
|Call result                             |Distribution of call by final call state                    |
|Caller action count                     |Distribution of call by number action used during the call  |

### Call Queue

|Name	                                   |Description                            |
|---------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------:|
|Incoming call source                    |Distribution of call by Internal/ External call source         |
|Call volume                             |Distribution of call by call queues                            |
|Caller result                           |Distribution of call by call result                            |
|Timeout/Overflow call total action      |Distribution of NOT forwarded(abandoned) call by call result   |
|Transfer/Forward target totals          |Distribution of call forwarded by call result                  |

> |Abandoned calls Ratio                   |Ratio of successful to abandoned call count                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Abandoned calls ratio                   |Ratio of successful to abandoned call count                    |
```

> |Average Session Length (seconds)        |Call length in seconds grouped by abandoned/successful calls   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Average session length (seconds)        |Call length in seconds grouped by abandoned/successful calls   |
```

> ### Agent Timeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Agent timeline
```

|Name	                                                   |Description                            |
|-------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------:|

> |# calls by Agent                                        |Distribution of call by call queue and agent                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|# calls by agent                                        |Distribution of call by call queue and agent                 |
```

> |Total Call duration (seconds) by Agent and Call Queue   |Total duration (seconds) of call by agent and call queue     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Total call duration (seconds) by agent and Call Queue   |Total duration (seconds) of call by agent and call queue     |
```

> |Average Call Duration (Second) by Agent Name            |Average duration (seconds) of call by agent                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Average call duration (seconds) by agent name            |Average duration (seconds) of call by agent                  |
```

> # calls by Agent	Distribution of call by call queue and agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# calls by agent	Distribution of call by call queue and agent
```

> # calls by agent	Distribution of call by call queue and agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Total Call duration (seconds) by Agent and Call Queue	Total duration (seconds) of call by agent and call queue 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total call duration (seconds) by agent and Call Queue	Total duration (seconds) of call by agent and call queue 
```

> Total call duration (seconds) by agent and Call Queue	Total duration (seconds) of call by agent and call queue 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Average Call Duration (Second) by Agent Name	Average duration (seconds) of call by agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Average call duration (seconds) by agent name	Average duration (seconds) of call by agent
```

> Average call duration (seconds) by agent name	Average duration (seconds) of call by agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Known Issues

> - Currently CQ and AA shows Resource accounts Id instead of CQ/AA names.  To show all the traffic for an Auto Attendant or Call Queue you must select all the Resource Accounts assigned to the Auto Attendant or Call Queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Currently, Call Queue and auto attendant show resource accounts Id instead of Call Queue/auto attendant names.  To show all the traffic for an auto attendant or Call Queue you must select all the resource accounts assigned to the auto attendant or Call Queue.
```

Author: Suggest leaving Auto Attendant and Resource Account capitalized, just like Call Queue is.  Alternatively, change Call Queue to lower case as well so everything is treated equally.

> - Currently only 28 days of history are available in the dashboard as CQ/AA data is considered End User Identifiable Information and is subject to data privacy retention policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Currently, only 28 days of history is available in the dashboard as Call Queue/auto attendant data is considered end user identifiable information and is subject to data privacy retention policies.
```

Author: Please change Call Queue to call queue
